- [Instructor] The next couple of sections
I'm going to talk about how can you monitor
your Docker containers?
That is going to be a very important part of
when you're building your applications.
You want to identify what amount of CPU,
network, disc space, file system, et cetera are being
utilized by these containers.
This section is going to talk about
monitoring Docker using Docker CLI.
We're going to use three different mechanisms.
The first one is, Docker containers stats CLI,
then we will use Docker remote API.
If you remember, the client talks to the server
using rest API.
So there are certain aspects of rest API
on the remote API that can be used here.
And then last but not the least,
we'll take a look at the system events API.
Alright, let's get hands on with this.
It doesn't matter where this command is being excuted.
You can just execute it from your current working directory
as well.
Just for clarity, I got two tabs here.
I want to close this tab for now.
And let's clear up the console now.
So, let's take a look at what containers are running
at this point.
What I want to do is,
I want to kill all the containers that are
running at this point in time.
I'm going to say Docker container.
Kill all the containers and what are the process ID's
that I want to list here?
All of them and quietly.
Okay?
No containers are running.
That's good.
So, what we're going to use is Docker container
stats API.
It has certain options over here
and that's what we're going to be using, okay?
So let's start up Docker container
and see what we can use to measure it.
So what we're going to do is we're going to say
Docker container run -d
and we don't need to do any put forwarding here.
So all we're going to do is just run
arungupta/couchbase container here.
Okay?
Once we start up the container,
then we can use the Docker container stats API
on this container.
And just for convenience,
we will give it a name as well.
See the listing?
The container is up and running.
Let's make sure that the container
is up for us.
That way we can start reporting some metrics for us.
Okay?
Alright, our container is up now.
So now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to say
Docker container stats and I'm going to give it
a container name.
Right away it clears up my screen.
And it's showing me the container name
which is DB in our case percent CPU utilization right here.
Memory usage and the total limit here.
Memory percent utilization,
network I/O and block I/O which is the disc I/0.
So this information is refreshed for us.
It's constantly streamed to us
using containers long time metrics.
Okay?
Now, we want to format this output a bit
so what we can do is, we can say,
- -format and we can give it a format string here.
In terms of the format,
all I want is just a container and I want to display it
in my way and all I want to do
is display CPU percent utilization.
Okay?
It's still began stream it, but it's giving me
only the container name and CPU percent utilization.
So that's kind of cool.
Let's see.
What else we can do with this here?
Now, I want to display this information
in a tabular format.
So I'm going to say,
table and instead of giving me the container
give me the name.
I want to display the name here nicely.
And what I want to do is instead of saying
colon, I want to have a tab here.
Okay?
I still want to display the CPU percent utilization
and I'm going to add another tab here
and now I also want to display memory usage.
Okay?
So now, I'm getting a nice tabular format.
I'm getting a header,
container name, CPU utilization,
and memory utilization.
Okay?
That's kind of cool.
Let's take a look at another option here.
I can also say just give me one particular instance
off the stats at this moment.
No streaming, it just flashes the current data.
So, you can look at the Docker stats API,
build your own fancy dashboard on top of it
and the way you want to use it.
Now we also have a remote API
that gives far more details about it.
And how do we do that?
We can use curl.
We can use unix socket for this,
for connection.
So I'm going to use Docker sock file here
and of course, my host is running on local host.
And then my containers.
That's my API.
My container name is DB and stats
is the API that his being honored.
If I do this here,
it populates my screen rather quickly.
Every second it's refreshing the data.
So let's pause here for a second.
And let's look at one of the values here, okay?
If I take this here
this is output from one of the entries
which is being refreshed every second.
So you can see there's a lot of information
available as part of this Docker remote API
and that's something again, that you may leverage,
build fancy dashboards using that.
So let's cancel that.
The command for accessing Docker remote API
is a bit different on a Windows machine.
Now here, I'm on a Windows 7 worker machine.
Let's see how the command looks different.
Well first of all,
let's take a look at the containers
that are running here.
If I do Docker container LS,
it shows me there is only one container
that is running and that is a couch-based container.
Now let's take a look at the command that we're
going to use here.
We still going to use curl but instead of using
the unix socket we're going to use the commands
which will allow us to pause
the cert, the certificate authority cert
and the key.
And those are paused using --cert option,
- -ca cert option,
and --key option.
And their values are coming from the Docker machine
that we're going to create rather that we have
created on the Windows machine.
The value for these keys
as you can see is coming from
users arungupta.
That's my user profile directory .docker.
That's where all the certificates are stored.
Then within .docker we look at machine,
machines, and the machine name.
By default, the machine name is default
and then I'm giving it
the actual file which is cert.pm
ca.pm and key.pm.
Those are my three files
and then I'm saying https
because I'm making a connection
over https now.
This is the IP address off the docker mach.
I need to explicitly specify the port,
2376 and then container (mumbles)
is a standard Docker remote API.
So now, if I hit Enter here
it's going to start showing me a similar output
that was shown to us on a Docker Mac.
Let's look at another API.
Docker system, events API.
Okay?
Now when I say Docker system events
nothing happens to big events.
But essentially what it's doing is
it's spitting out the events
that are generated by the system.
So let's create some space here
and I'm going to open up
a new tab here and in this new tab
let's set up our PS1 first of all.
Okay, I'm going to say
Docker run-d.
I don't care about the name
or anything else at this point of time.
I just want to run a while fly instance here, okay?
So let's go back to this tab here
for a second.
No events have been generated
and now I'm going to say
Docker run -d, cheapest while fly
and if I go back here,
You can see the events that are being generated.
It says Container create,
network connect and container stark.
So those are the events that you can start
monitoring.
Let's create some space here.
Let's take a look at
the listing here in this tab
and I can say, Docker container rm.
I'm going to take the while fly container
and paste the container ready
and remove it.
And once again, I can see container kill,
container die, network disconnect
and container destroy.
So you can start looking at
not just the containers
but the health of the system
comprehensively as well.
So these are some handy utilities
for you that are available to you
as part of the Docker CLI itself.